---
title: "Classes"
tags:
  - software
categories:
  - clean code
excerpt: "Best practices for writing classes"
last_modified_at: 2019-11-18T09:20:36.606005
---
## Classes
Java order convention
	* public static variables
	* private instance variables
	* public methods
		* private utility methods

### Encapsulation 
Some methods need to be tested therefore should be kept public.
	* protected scope can be used when tests are considered.

### Classes should be small
* Count by responsibilities compared to lines of code.
* if pinpointing a name is difficult, then class may be too large.
* `manager` nomenclature signals that a class is too large

### Single Responsibility Principle
* classes have one reason to change.
* understanding reasons to change will keep classes small.
* a separation of concerns is just as important in our activities as they are in our code.
* decoupling code into single responsibilities is not usually a focus.
* larger classes contain a lot of information that is not necessary 

### Cohesion
* High cohesion. 
* Methods reflect and tied to the behavior of the instance variables.
* Keep small numbers of globals and make sure cohesion is tight (this process keeps responsibilities small)
* Decomposing large functions into small functions enforces more transparent structures.
* Write test suit that verifies the précised behavior of the first program.
* Test based changes makes sure the behavior is the same.
 
### Organizing for change
 Every change is cause for risk that the behavior no longer works as intended.
 * Change as little as possible. 
 * Enforce open closed principle. Classes should be open for extension but closed for modification.
 * Closed subclasses don't change in behavior and don't affect other parts of the code.
 * Structure classes to mock as little as possible.
 * New code ideally exists through extension, not modification

### Isolating from Change
Abstract classes represents concepts.
* Dependence on concrete details when those details change. 
* Test cases dependent on an API can be flaky. 
* Systems that are more decoupled should be more trivial to test.
* Adhere to DI principle, classes should be dependent on abstractions rather than concrete details. Better isolation from change.
