---
title: "Systems"
tags:
  - system design
categories:
  - clean code
excerpt: "Best practices for system thinking"
last_modified_at: 2019-11-19T10:37:14.159916
---

### How Would You Build a City?
Teams of people who manage particular parts of the city. Some people are responsible for the big picture. Developed abstractions and modularity. 

### Separate Constructing From Using It
Software systems should be separate from the startup process. Different form runtime logic.

* Avoid little conveniences - lazy instantiation makes it difficult to test if the object exists or not. 

### Separation of Main
* Main method builds objects necessary for the system, passes them to the application. 
* Application has no knowledge of the construction process.
* Expects that everything has been built properly.

### Factories
Abstract factory pattern to give application control of when to build objects. Keeps logic of construction separate from application code.

```kotlin
// can pass application specific constructors
class LineItemFactory() {
	fun makeLineItem() { }
}
```

### Dependency Injection
* Inversion of Control (IOC) moves responsibilities from an object to other objects that are dedicated to the purpose hence SRP. 
* DI enforces that the class shouldn't be responsible  for creating dependencies themselves. A specific entity representing the "main" routine should be creating the dependencies. 
* DI requires that the container instantiates the objects
* Configuration is handled elsewhere

### Scaling
* Systems can not always be built right the first time.
* Implement stories, and refactor the system to implement new stories.
* Test-driven development and refactoring make it easy to build new stories

#### Lack of Separation of Concerns
* Local or remote interfaces often require DTO's that create redundant code. 
* This code is then be used by the application and creates tight coupling.

### Cross Cutting Concerns
Concerns such as persistence cut across natural object boundaries of a domain. 

* Represents transactions in a DBMS.
* Naming conventions might represent another entity.

**Aspect Oriented Programming**
Aspects represent consistent ways to support a concern.

### Aspects
* cuts across domains. Encapsulate aspects across different domains making separation of concerns more difficult.
* Logging is a crosscutting concern because it affects every part of the system.
### Pure Java AOP Frameworks
* Manages aspects in the Java ecosystem.

### Test drive the system architecture
* BDUF (Big Design Up Front)
	* Adapting to change is poor.
	* Building architects do BDUF (difficult to change)
* Start decoupled architecture, delivering user stories quickly. High availability and performance by introducing more advanced infrastructure.
* Many architectures can be overkill 

***minimally coupled designs are appropriately simple at each level of abstraction and scope***

### Use Standard when They Add Demonstrable Value
* avoid complicated architectures if they convolute development and don't value to customers

### DSL 
* avoids communication gap between domain and code. 

### Conclusion 
An invasive architecture overwhelms domain logic and agility. All levels of abstraction, the intent should be clear. Use aspect like mechanisms to incorporate other concerns non-invasively. 
***Use the simplest thing that can possibly work***